---
layout: default
title:  "Unicode"
categories: dev
date : 2022-08-09 20:09:40 +09:00
---

- reference : 
    - en.wikipedia.org/wiki/[Character_encoding Universal_Coded_Character_Set]
    - unicode.org

- Character Set & Encoding : To represent characters on a computer
    1. select characters
    1. represent as numbers(coded character set)
    1. represent as bits and bytes -> encoding

## Character set(Character map)
- ASCII(American Standard Code for Information Interchange) : 7bits
- ANSI(American National Standard Institute) : ASCII + Code page 1bit. nonstandard.
- ISO/IEC 8859 : joint ISO and IEC series of standards for 8-bit character encodings.
- KS X 1001(previous KS C 5601) : Korean double-byte
- Unicode(Universal Coded Character Set, UCS)
  - Standard set of characters defined by the international standard ISO/IEC 10646.
  - The Unicode Standard refers to the standard character set that represents all natural language characters.
  - All modern operating systems, computing environments, programming languages, and applications support the core of the Unicode Standard. 

## Encodings
- ISO-IR 6 : 7 bits encoding. using ASCII

- Multibytes encoding : \
    difficult to identify characters within a byte stream\
    adaption of program from single byte to multibyte requires huge work\
    different multibyte encodings require different adaptions
  - EUC-KR(extended unix code) : Korean 2bytes, English 1byte. W3C Standard. based on KS X 1001
  - CP949(Code Page 949) : Unified Hangul Code by MS. based on KS X 1001

- Code switching : \
  even more difficult to handle than multibyte encodings\
  difficult to get accurate information on some parts
  - ISO-2022-KR : RFC 1557(Korean Character Encoding for Internet Messages). It encodes ASCII and KS X 1001-1992.

- Encoding Unicode code points : 
  - UTF-8
    - variable-length character encoding standard. 1~4Bytes. Korean 3 bytes
    - Code point <-> UTF-8 conversion

      | code point | Byte1  Byte2  Byte3  Byte4 |
      |--- | --- |
      | U+0000 ~ U+007F | 0xxxxxxx |
      | U+0080 ~ U+07FF	| 110xxxxx  10xxxxxx |
      | U+0800 ~ U+FFFF	| 1110xxxx  10xxxxxx  10xxxxxx |
      | U+10000 ~ U+10FFFF | 11110xxx  10xxxxxx  10xxxxxx  10xxxxxx |

    - UTF-8 encoding process ex.

      | Character	| Binary code point	| Binary UTF-8	| Hex UTF-8 |
      | --- | --- | --- | --- |
      | 한 | U+D55C | 1101 0101 0101 1100 | 11101101 10010101 10011100	| ED 95 9C |
      
    - As with most other encodings, UTF-8 is now preferred for new use, solving problems with consistency between platforms and vendors.
    - Usage
      - Default encoding for WEB(XML, HTML5) - space efficiency
      - Many protocols
      - IRI->URI conversion
      - Some file systems (getting popular for Unix/Linux file names)
      - Internal processing in some applications
  - UTF-16(extension of UCS-2)
    - U+0000 ~ U+FFFF
    - variable-length, as code points are encoded with one or two 16-bit code units.
    - Usage
      - Internal encoding for many applications and systems
      - Default in java
      - UTF-16 is more adequate with BMP (Basic Multilingual Plane) characters that can be represented with 2 bytes
  - UTF-32(previously named UCS-4) : 4bytes
    - Very simple and straightforward
    - Used on some Unix systems for internal processing
    - Space inefficient

- BOM(byte order mark)
 A particular usage of the special Unicode character whose appearance as a magic number at the start of a text stream.
  - Unicode character encoding is used.
  - The byte order, or endianness (UTF-16,32)
    - UTF-8 BOM : U+EFBBBF
    - UTF-16 BOM : U+FEFF (Big Endian)
    - UTF-16 BOM : U+FFFE (Little Endian)
  - It might cause confusion in Linux system. (Program dependency)
  - JVM UTF-16 use Big Endian

### ICU
Unicode’s programming libraries include ICU (International Components for Unicode).\
ICU is a mature, widely used set of C/C++(ICU4C) and Java(ICU4J) libraries providing Unicode and Globalization support for software applications.
1. Code Page Conversion : Convert text data to or from Unicode
1. Collation : Compare strings
1. Formatting: Format numbers, dates, times and currency amounts according the conventions of a chosen locale.
1. Time Calculations
1. Unicode Support
1. Regular Expression
1. Bidi(bi-directional language)
1. Text Boundaries: Locate the positions of words, sentences, paragraphs within a range of text, or identify locations that would be suitable for line wrapping when displaying the text.
